Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-03-17T03:43:29+00:00

====== AR02 ======
Created Sunday 17 March 2024

The reality known as AR02 differs from ours in two major ways - in 1865 Charles Babbage's design for his Analytical engine was completed, and a year later, the first fully functional programmable universal computer was unveiled by Lady Ada Lovelace, ushering in the computer age almost a century earlier than in our own reality. This in turn resulted in an explosion of invention and creativity, from advances in medicine, communication, transport and production to warfare, crime, and other less welcome areas of human endeavour. 

The other key difference between our own reality and AR02 is the frequency of gloaming interstice events and the alternate realities they lead to. So far, another four realities have been identified, one ([[AR01]]) independently verified before contact with AR02 was established, the other three only accessible from AR02. 

These two differences have led to world very different politically, socially and tehcnologically to our own. Queen Victoria of Great Britain still rules the British Empire at the age of 205, although she relies on a complex and elaborate life support system to keep her alive. Despite her incredibly advanced age and physical state, her mind is, as far as is known, as sharp as ever, and her rule of the British Empire is undisputed (Her rule is rigorously and often violently enforced by the extensive and far reaching British armed forces, and other, more secretive organistions within Her Majesties realm..

The First World War that ended in 1918 in our reality is known simply as The Great War, or simply The War in AR02. It lasted 28 years until an uneasy peace was eventually agreed in 1942. Tensions between the French, German and British Empires and unrest in the Great Russian Empire reached a flashpoint in 1914, and warfare quickly engulfed the globe as territories of various empires struggled to survive and conquer. The creation, and use of the analytical engine in advancing science and technology across the world resulted in the deployment of devestating weapons, and the increased knowledge of Conexus Theory and the Gloaming spurred the creation and deployment of some very complex - almost arcane  - weapons and technology.

This extended war probably did more than anything else to accelerate the technological advances in AR02, as each empire, country and faction sought any way possible to defeat their enemies, or just to survive. 
