Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-03-17T03:54:06+00:00

====== Conexus ======
Created Sunday 17 March 2024

The Conexus - the fundamental underlying links between everything , and it's associated implications such as the "butterfly effect", have undergone a massive resurgence of interest since the discovery of alternate realities. The analysis of the interconnectedness of all things, previously considered orders of magnitude too complicated to be of any practical value, suddenly became a viable - and highly profitable - field. Cross referencing relatively tiny differences between worlds and extrapolating their deterministic path through time became a practical consideration when one or more other worlds could be studied simultaneously. The exact prediction and manipulation of events is still far beyond achievable, but the "echo" effect of changes in one world reflecting onto another mean that it is theoretically possible to effect or predict changes in our world based on change in AR02, and vice-versa.

The essence of Conexus Theory is based on the idea that a "reality" is a subset of a domain, known as a macro-reality, that is essentially the mathematical expression of every possible potentiality, usually concieved as a massively high-dimensional space (rSpace). The theory further suggests that mathematics, rather than being a tool or language that can be used to describe reality, //is// in fact reality (effectively, "reality" is the term given to the experience of a consciousness of the informational substrate of everything), and that every event is in effect a computation. If (as Conexus theory suggests) every point in rSpace is connected to every other point in rSpace through one or more "[[Gehling Transformations]]", it follows that sufficient analysis and computation should allow the value of any point of rSpace to be examined and manipulated, and implies that the state of any point in any reality at any time can not only be examined, but potentially manipulated, given enough initial information and processing power.

While this is impossible in a practical sense, modern technology and an ever increasing understanding of the Gloaming and rSpace are making conexus theory and associated disciplines increasingly a part of day to day life, influencing technological, political and social development.

Obviously this kind of power and capability is incalculably valuable, and people and organisations of all kinds are seeking ways to profit from it. This involves making observations, and in some cases initiating actions, in AR02, with the aim of achieving a desired effect here. 

Conexus Theory and Conexus Mathematics blossomed in AR02 in the mid 20th century as technologies and ideas developed during wartime found new uses, and governments, companies and other factions began to realise its potential power. 

The development of Conexus theory is intrinsically tied to the increased uderstanding of Gloaming physics.


